My name is Jill Willey. Today it's the 8th of August and I'm here at the Ellen Lynx offices
talking to Liz Fosse, Ian Billings and Nathan Preece. Now these people are members of a
very interesting organisation known as GOATS, meaning Getting On in the Shed group. My apologies,
Getting On at the Shed. Thank you, Liz. Liz, could you just give us your full name and
the year in which you were born? Liz Fosse, 1952. Fine. Can you tell me just a little
bit about yourself, as much or as little as you choose to tell me in the next couple of
minutes? I was born in the Midlands. I was born in Nottingham where I spent almost 30
years there. Then I moved down to Devon, to Plymouth and I spent almost 30 years there
and I've come to Birmingham and I'm going to spend 30 years here. Thank you very much
indeed. May I call you Liz? You can, yes. Right, thank you very much. We'll just move
on now to Ian. One moment please. Okay, we'll just pin on to the research. I'll just clip
on. Anywhere at all. No, sorry. Right, and now we're moving on to Nathan. So Nathan,
could you just give us your full name please, the year you were born and just a little snapshot
of yourself. Yes, I'm Nathan Price. I was born in 1946. I'm a retired accountant. I
was born in Gloucestershire. I lived in West Midlands for about 50 years now I guess. I
joined the goats about six months ago and enjoyed the company and very much enjoyed
the trip here today. Well, we're very pleased to welcome the three of you here at the Ellen
Ling's office. Yeah, and that's Don who is a minor. Because I'd heard about the, that they were
talking about the Valley and where Birmingham water comes from, my friend told me about it and
I thought, oh that sounds really interesting. And so I came along right at the start, we were
talking about that. Well, I think some of them had done a bit of a walk of the pipe as well.
Yeah, and other things that we do. You obviously do a lot of interesting things. We do local
history. We've been on little trips around our local area and found out things that we didn't
even know about, you know, on our doorstep. It sounds very interesting what you do and what
you're doing while you're here in the Valley. Would you mind just tell me a little bit about
the gentleman you referred to as the Mine of Information? I think I had a technical blip there.
Oh, what was his name? His name's Don and he's well into his eighties I think. Mine of Information,
if we ask a question he always knows the answer and if he doesn't he goes back,
researches it and comes back and tells us all what he's learnt. He sounds like a very useful
gentleman. He's very useful, very interesting man. Fine, fine. I'll move on to Ian now if I may.
Hello. Hello Ian, we talk again. Right, is this your first time in the Ellen Valley?
It is my first time here, yes, in the Ellen Valley. I've travelled quite a lot in Wales
because I used to work across Wales and but yes, it's my first time in the Ellen Valley.
And what do you think of it? Have you had a pleasant experience?
It's been absolutely beautiful. We've been very lucky with the weather, not just because it's
been hot and sunny but because it's been so bright and the landscape has looked very beautiful.
We're familiar with the layout of the valley from the model in Cannon Hill Park but you don't get
a sense of the scale and quite how pretty it is until you're walking and driving around it.
Right, we might just move on to Nathan now. So nice to hear that you're really enjoying
yourselves here. Nathan, we've just discussed the water and the model. I take it you yourself were
aware of where your water came from in Birmingham? Oh yes, yes, I knew it came from the Ellen Valley,
yes. Right, and have you actually seen the model? I have, only fairly recently, it's only after I
joined GOAPS where people were starting to talk about it that I realised it was there. I hadn't
lived really right in Birmingham, well I'd lived in Birmingham itself for about 10 years now but
I never actually knew it was there and I did go and find it and yeah it's very interesting.
It's quite a little gem in the middle of the Cannon Hill Park isn't it?
Yes it is. Right, thank you. We'll move back to Liz now, many thanks.
Liz you've given me a little snapshot of what goes on at GOAPS. Now is this your first time in the
valley? I'm not sure how far away it was that I've been before but it was definitely Central Wales
and I'm going to say this wrong, it was Clanddilos, something like that. Clidloes, I would imagine.
Yes, is that too far away from here? No it is not, it's just in fact people commute so it's really
not that far at all. Well I came here in 1976 when there was a drought so I've seen all the
reservoirs, never seen a reservoir full and the weather was just like this, so my vision of Wales
is always sunny. Sunny, yes. Not always of course but you've obviously come. And I have to say that probably my son was conceived in Wales
so if we gave him a name it would be Aberystwyth.
Can you put that one off? Take that one out.
Whatever you like. Right and Liz were you well aware of the fact that the water here goes down to
Birmingham? Were you aware that was your supply? Not until I came to Birmingham and since I've been
at Goats I've talked about it with my friends and they all learned about the Elan Valley and
the water at school and they made models of it, they all went to visit it as a school trip
so they all knew exactly what I was talking about. Right so you're well aware of this model in
Mill Park. Yes. I see. Right thank you. Ian then is there anything else you'd like to say about
what you do at Goats at all? Yes you were right when you said earlier it was set up as a group for
men. I think the original idea had been that there was a possible problem of isolation
in older men and I'm 53 and the youngest goat but when I joined it was a lot more of a men's group
and we did some very manly activities. We made nails for example in a forge which is a traditional
Birmingham industry or a traditional black country industry I should say and we learned scything from
Ida who's with us on this trip and which I can't describe as a manly activity since Ida is a woman
who was teaching us to be experts. So we've done quite a lot of sort of conservation focused things
there's an orchard associated with the shed and some people work there and yes it's been
local history and industrial history has been a focus but we've also done some craft type things
and so on chorus oh yes some nature-based nature focused things as well.
Absolutely lovely what you do lovely camaraderie I would imagine. We've also done some singing
because Kate Green who as you know was artist in residence here had written two songs which our
group one member of our group wrote melodies a four-part vocal harmony and guitar line and a
piano part and then we recorded those songs and one of our number who you might interview later
wrote some goats lyrics so we added some extra verses of our own and we sang them we sent the
recording to Kate and she joined us last night and we had a little sing of her version and our
version and played around with some musical instruments so there's a some of the goats are
musical. So really your talents are quite legion aren't they they appear to be? Collectively yes
not necessarily individually. What was the name of the song because Kate Green has actually given
a performance of all her songs walking the pipeline what was the name of your song? There were two
there was walking the pipe and the other one was called 73 and a half miles. Right thank you thank
you very much. So Ian I take it you're aware that Birmingham is supplied by the water from the
Elan Valley? Well yes but I wasn't at school in Birmingham so I hadn't learned that at school or
made models at school but I was born in Crewe and my dad always told me water came from Wales
and I don't know if cruise water comes from the Elan Valley or not but
it certainly comes from somewhere in Wales. I see and you'd be aware of the model in Cannon Hill Park?
In Cannon Hill Park yes yes and I believe that it was in working condition when I first came to
Birmingham it's in need of some restoration at the moment and I believe there's a project
underway or under discussion to renovate it and get it back up to a working model with water
flowing through it. Well let's hope that comes to fruition in the not too distant future then.
Thank you very much Ian. Nathan if I can just ask you now is there anything you'd like to add to the
activities that you all do in the goats? I think to be honest about 90 percent of the time we
spend drinking coffee and just having a chat and catching up on what's been happening
and we sort of plan trips and events so it's just having a chat and
planning forward events coming here. I mean it's been a lot of discussion about coming here obviously
so yeah but it's just nice to have an hour or two a week just meeting up with my old friends.
And is this your first time in the Elan Valley? Well to be honest I thought I'd been here before
but now I've come and seen it I don't think I have so I would say it was my first yeah I must
have been somewhere else I was thinking of which was in Wales. And what do you think of it then?
Oh it's absolutely stunning yeah really beautiful and I guess it's maybe larger than I expected the
whole area probably probably larger than I expected. Yes and of course now you'll be aware of it
you probably have a better idea of its links now with this area supplying the water and
you're obviously aware of that little model in the can. Yes that's right yeah yeah yeah it's sort of
put it all together now. Well one question I'd like to ask you collectively if I may and that's
will you come again? Yes I will have you come again. Yes probably yes yes I would bring my family.
Thank you. Well I think we've more or less covered it about what you've been doing and where you've
been and how much you like it and we've established a connection between Birmingham and
Elan Valley now so thank you very very much. So you've talked about the games games oh we haven't
mentioned yet. Right there's a little bit more I think Liz would like to say.
One of our group Hugh asked if we'd like to do board games and people bring board games along
and we're all introduced to new games and yeah it can be quite competitive sometimes.
Yeah would you say it's a it's a very good way of getting to know people and the camaraderie.
Definitely yeah. Keeping you together. Yeah yeah a lot of us are on our own
um so you know that's good for an ideal place to meet. Especially after lockdown you know you
sort of. We're all coming out again now aren't we? Yes well look that's lovely I think that more or
less sums it up and thank you very much Liz, Ian and Nathan for your time and your input. Thank you.